in_someip: Initial input plugin documentation. (#1569)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/inputs/someip.md

# SOMEIP

The `someip` input plugin is used to interact with a `SOME/IP` communication network to subscribe to events and to exchange request/response with `SOME/IP` services.

This plugin uses the [`vsomeip`](https://github.com/COVESA/vsomeip) library (built-in dependency).

## Configuration parameters

The plugin supports the following configuration parameters:

| Key          | Description |
| ------------ | ----------- |
| `event`       | `SOME/IP` event to subscribe to. The configuration can have multiple events, one on each line. An event is identified by a comma separated list with, `service_ID, event_ID, event_group_ID_1, event_group_ID_2, ...`. The event must include at least one `event_group_ID`, but can be associated with multiple. |

> | `rpc`         | `SOME/IP` request to send when service is available. The configuration can have multiple RPC entries, one on each line. An RPC is composed as a comma separated list with, `service_ID, service_instance, method_ID, request_payload`. The request payload should be base64 encoded. |

Reviewer: fixing.

### Command line

The `someip` plugin can be enabled with options from the command line:

```shell
./fluent-bit -i someip -p Event=4,1,32768,1 -o stdout
```

### Configuration file

In your main configuration file append the following sections:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="fluent-bit.yaml" %}
```yaml
pipeline:
  inputs:
    - name: someip
      event:
        - '4,1,32768,1'
        - '4,1,32769,2'
      rpc: '4,1,1,CgAQAw=='
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab title="fluent-bit.conf" %}
```text
[INPUT]
    Name someip
    Tag  in.someip

    Event 4,1,32768,1
    Event 4,1,32769,2
    RPC   4,1,1,CgAQAw==

[OUTPUT]
    Name        stdout
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Testing

Once Fluent Bit is running, you can send some `SOME/IP` messages using the `SOME/IP` test service provided.

```shell
$ bin/someip_test_service
2025-02-06 22:18:06.211337  [info] Parsed vsomeip configuration in 0ms
...
Sending event with message Event Number 1
Sent notification for service 4, event 32768
Sending event with message Event Number 2
Sent notification for service 4, event 32768
```

> The following output displays in [Fluent Bit](http://fluentbit.io):

Reviewer: Fixing.

# SOMEIP

The _someip_ input plugin is used to interact with a SOME/IP communication network to subscribe to events and to exchange request/response with SOME/IP services.

This plugin uses the [vsomeip library](https://github.com/COVESA/vsomeip) \(built-in dependency\).

## Configuration Parameters

The plugin supports the following configuration parameters:

| Key          | Description |
| ------------ | ----------- |
| Event        | SOME/IP event to subscribe to. The configuration can have multiple events, one on each line. An event is identified by a comma separated list with, "_service ID_, _event ID_, _event group ID 1_, _event group ID 2_, ...". The Event must include at least one _event group ID_, but can be associated with multiple. |

> | RPC          | SOME/IP request to send when service is available. The configuration can have multiple RPCs, one on each line. An RPC is composed as a comma separated list with, "_service ID_, _service instance_, _method ID_, _request payload_". The request payload should be a should be base64 encoded |

Reviewer: Fixing.

> | RPC          | SOME/IP request to send when service is available. The configuration can have multiple RPCs, one on each line. An RPC is composed as a comma separated list with, "_service ID_, _service instance_, _method ID_, _request payload_". The request payload should be a should be base64 encoded |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `Event`       | SOME/IP event to subscribe to. The configuration can have multiple events, one on each line. An event is identified by a comma separated list with, `service_ID, event_ID, event_group_ID_1, event_group_ID_2, ...`. The event must include at least one `event_group_ID`, but can be associated with multiple. |
| `RPC`         | SOME/IP request to send when service is available. The configuration can have multiple RPCs, one on each line. An RPC is composed as a comma separated list with, `service_ID, service_instance, method_ID, request_payload". The request payload should be base64 encoded. |
```
Stylistic consistency

> 

Reviewer: Fixing.

## Getting Started

> In order to subscribe to SOME/IP events or send request/receive SOME/IP response, you can run the plugin from the command line or through the configuration file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get Started

To subscribe to SOME/IP events or send request/receive SOME/IP response, run the plugin from the command line or through the configuration file:
```

### Command Line

The **someip** plugin can be enabled with options from the command line:

```bash
$ ./fluent-bit -i someip -p Event=4,1,32768,1 -o stdout

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Command line

The _someip_ plugin can be enabled with options from the command line:

```bash
./fluent-bit -i someip -p Event=4,1,32768,1 -o stdout
```
```
